With any software that is developed,
the cost to remediate the impact of finding defects is
much lower when identified earlier in the life cycle rather than later.
This is why it is highly advisable to perform
some static code analysis on any application code prior to deployment and runtime.
Static code analysis for finding
application security vulnerabilities is not a new concept.
However, this concept also applies to code that
defines Cloud infrastructure or infrastructure as code.
Infrastructure's code should be tested prior to
deployment to ensure that it won't do what it is intended to
do and also ensure that any potentially insecure configurations are identified early on.
These insecure configurations should be
treated as vulnerabilities and fixed prior to running.
Many times, organizations will check these configurations post deployment.
However, it is important to add this check during the development phase to
ensure that vulnerabilities are investigated and remediated.
When implementing infrastructure as code scanning in your DevOps pipeline,
there are few additional considerations to keep in mind.
Scan code for operating system or VM and
container image configuration in addition to Cloud or AWS configuration.
Dockerfiles, Ansible, Puppet, Chef should all ensure that
configurations are inline with
security standards that have been established by the organization.
The code scan step may happen on check-in
or prior to deploying depending on the tool selected.
For example, during a Terraform plan.
If security-related violations are found,
your process should be set up to notify
the appropriate parties and halt the pipeline from progressing.
There are many open source projects which allow you to
construct security policies and then check Terraform or
CloudFormation template code for any security-related configurations
which are out of compliance with your security requirements as defined in the policies.
In addition to open source options,
many of the major commercial Cloud security products
offer infrastructure's code scanning as part of their product platform.
Next, let's go ahead and walk through an example of using a framework called
Open Policy Agent with an open source tool called
Regula to check a Terraform template for compliance.